In this lesson we will learn about structural elements structural elements are designed to contain or
Howze other elements and their entire purpose is to give additional semantic meaning or organization
to our DML pages in order to learn about the different structural elements that are at your disposal
.
We are going to complete an exercise together in front of you is an example page that I have set up
for this lesson.
And currently it does not use even a single structural element.
So our goal is to review this page together and wrap structural elements around the existing content
in order to create more well-structured code.
Let's begin with a bird's eye view of the page.
This seems like the header of the page because it includes the largest heading and then a slogan can
see that this is an article.
It's got the date bit of text and then a bit of meta data telling us which category the article was
posted in.
And that it doesn't have any comments.
This looks like another article.
This looks like a side bar which many web sites include.
It's simply a place that houses relevant content to the Web site as a whole.
And this looks like the Web site's footer area now that we've identified the main building blocks of
the page.
Let's jump to the fun part.
Let's head over to our text editor and begin wrapping structural elements around the content.
The first two structural elements that I want to introduce you to are named header and footer.
So if we look at the web page again we had said that this seemed to be the header of the Web site.
And this bit of text and here appeared to be the footer.
So with that in mind in our text editor let's wrap these two elements inside a header element and indent
them just to stay organized and then let's scroll to the bottom and this is the bit of text that we
identified as the website's footer.
So there's an element named for
the next structural element that I would like to introduce you to is named article for look at our Web
page.
We had mentioned that this looked like one article and this looked like a second article.
Now the elements name is a bit self-explanatory article so we can use this when we have an article or
a blog post or any other bit of content that can stand on its own.
That's cohesive.
Even without any of the other content on the web page.
So in our code let's find the first article and wrap it in the article element.
So here is all the code.
So our start tag will be here.
Our end tag will be here.
And then let's go ahead and indent this content to our first article is complete.
Let's go ahead and wrap the article element around the second article.
So it begins here and it ends here so the Start Tag article the end tag article and then let's indent
the content.
Now that we've created article elements I'd like to revisit the header and footer structural elements
when we use the header element earlier in the lesson.
We did so to signify that this bit of content was the header of the entire document or website.
And there should only be one top level header.
However we can also use the header element for sections of content or in our articles.
So for example within this article we can designate the title and the date as a header.
So in our code here is our first article we can wrap the name of the article and the date of the article
.
Inside another Ketterer element
the same can be said for the footer element to remember that we initially use the footer element for
the footer of the entire document or website down here at the bottom of the page and there should only
be one top level footer.
But again within bits of content within our article we can designate this metadata area as the footer
of the entire article.
So within our text editor or find that bit of text here it is.
Now wrap it in footer
Very quickly let's do the same for our second article.
Let's wrap the header inside a header in the footer inside of footer element.
So the second article starts here
this content is the header and this content is the footer
to review.
So far we've learned three structural elements.
Number one header.
Number two footer and number three article the fourth and final structural element that we will learn
in this lesson is named A side the side the element is used for a section of the page which is related
to the content surrounding it but should be viewed as separate from that content.
So for example in our second article there is a glossary section and this glossary is a great example
of a place where we can use the A side element.
So the glossary is where we can define terms that are used in this article which means it's definitely
related to the article but it's not exactly part of the articles body content.
It's an aside.
So in our code we can find that second article
and identify where that glossary text sits and wrap it in an inside element.
Now you are free to have multiple asides on a page.
If we look at our page in the browser.
I think we'll note that this sidebar area is also a good candidate for the A-side element.
So let's find that bit of content in our text editor.
Here it is.
And we'll wrap that in and a side element as well
when using the aside element.
It's important to remember the Russians stacking all analogy and it's important to pay attention to
elements.
Direct parent.
So for example when using the side for the sidebar we should make sure that this content is related
to its direct parent.
Now the sidebar is direct parent is the body element itself.
So that means whatever content goes inside the sidebar should be relevant or in some way related to
the entire page itself whereas our glossary its direct parent was the article.
So it only needs to be related in some way to the content of the article.
With that rule in mind and with our asides now in place our page is complete.
Our goal was to add structural elements to give additional organization and semantic meaning to our
page to review.
We learned about four new elements header footer article and decide we're well on our way to writing
more organized code.
I'll see you in the next lesson